---
layout: post
title: Tools of the Trade - Bash
---


<div class="message">
  Howdy! This is a first blog post where I can test how the formating and structure of a Jekyll based blog would look.
</div>

One of the great things about bash is just how flexible and configurable it is. In this post I'll layout some of the changes that I use frequently on a new machine.

> As a general rule I try not install any packages/plugins or anything which pushes the you further from the stock setup... Looking at you zsh!




## Bash Changes

Here are the changes I have made to my config in order of most important. 

### Git Branch Highlighting

I find knowing that I am in a git repo one of the most important peices of information. On top of that it will tell me what branch I am on. This was inspired by the [following post](https://www.shellhacks.com/show-git-branch-terminal-command-prompt).

{% highlight bash %}
# git branches
git_branch() {
  git branch 2> /dev/null | sed -e '/^[^*]/d' -e 's/* \(.*\)/(\1)/'
}
PS1="$PS1\[\033[00;31m\]\$(git_branch)\[\033[00m\]\$ "
{% endhighlight %}

### Speed Aliases

{% highlight bash %}
#speed
alias ve="virtualenv --python=python3.8 ./venv/py38 && source ./venv/py38/bin/activate"
alias qg="git add . && git commit -m 'quick commit' && git push origin"
alias rl="readlink -f"
alias gf='git flow'
{% endhighlight %}

1. `ve` Typing this in any repo will generate a virtualenv and source it automatically. I use this all the time and is great when experimenting and exploring github repos.
2. `qg` Stands for quick git. I know this will be a controversial one to add. Since it's ruining the git commit messages. Also it's risky since it's adding everything with the `git add .` but each to their own.
3. `rl` When working with a team it's great to send them the exact full path of the file. I use it so often and `readlink -f` takes too long.
4. `gf` Useful if you use [gitflow](http://danielkummer.github.io/git-flow-cheatsheet/). `gf init`

### Android Changes

I spent some time looking at Android, I found the following helpful.

{% highlight bash %}
#android specific
function aver { aapt dump badging "$1" | grep versionName; }
export -f aver
alias sy='watch -n 2 scrcpy -m 1024 --always-on-top'
{% endhighlight %}

This means I can run `aver` for an apk and it prints the APK version information.

```
rob@rob-T480s:~/$ aver spotify.apk 
package: name='com.spotify.music' versionCode='65804403' versionName='8.5.82.894' platformBuildVersionName=''
```
The `sy` command runs [scrcpy](https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy) with watch -n 2 which will try to restart it every 2 secs as soon as it ends.


### Which bash configuration file to use?

> To .bashrc or .profile? That is the question.

`.profile` is executed on startup only. `.bashrc` is executed every time you open a new terminal. I generally use .bashrc since I think it's more common. I also put the following snippet into my code so I can test when each gets executed. I put this in both `.bashrc` and inside `.profile` just append it to the end.

{% highlight bash %}
# this prints an echo every time the script is executed (useful to know)
self=$(readlink -f "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}")
basename=$(basename "$self")
echo "$basename was executed"
{% endhighlight %}
 

-----

